## Inspiration
VideoGPT was inspired by the recognition of a prevailing challenge in the realm of content creation — the often daunting and time-consuming process of translating ideas into visually compelling videos. We observed a significant complexity in transforming the creativity into engaging visual narratives. VideoGPT was conceptualized by the desire to simplify and democratize this process. Our mission is to empower individuals and businesses to effortlessly bridge the gap between words and visuals, making dynamic video creation accessible to all, and transforming the way stories are shared in a visually-driven digital world.

## What it does
VideoGPT is an innovative text-to-video converter that empowers users to effortlessly transform written content into dynamic visual narratives. Leveraging advanced natural language processing and computer vision technologies, VideoGPT takes any text input and generates engaging videos in various themes. From sleek corporate presentations to playful cartoon animations, VideoGPT caters to diverse content needs. The user-friendly interface allows individuals and businesses alike to elevate their storytelling without the need for extensive technical skills. With VideoGPT, the creative process becomes seamless, unlocking a new realm of possibilities for those looking to bring their ideas to life through captivating visuals.

## How we built it
"VideoGPT" redefines video creation, offering a streamlined process. Users provide a brief on the concept, specify the purpose (YouTube Shorts or Instagram Reels), and GPT-4 crafts a script.The images for the video are generated by Dalle-3. Voice-over, powered by Resemble.ai 's text to speech, brings the script to life. Resemble.ai produces customizable voiceovers, allowing users to add a personal touch with their own voice. This comprehensive approach ensures a tailored and AI-enhanced video creation experience for diverse needs.

## Challenges we ran into
The journey from concept to completion was not without its challenges. Fine-tuning the model for optimal video coherence, managing server scalability, and ensuring a seamless user experience were significant hurdles. We navigated these challenges through iterative development, continuous testing, and collaborative problem-solving. Ultimately, overcoming these obstacles reinforced our commitment to delivering a high-quality product.

## What we learned
Throughout the development of VideoGPT, we learned invaluable lessons about the intersection of technology and creative expression. From refining natural language processing algorithms to optimizing video rendering, the project taught us the importance of balancing technical innovation with user-friendly design. Additionally, we gained insights into the diverse needs of content creators, shaping our understanding of how technology can empower individuals in various fields.

## What's next for VideoGPT


## Getting Started
After cloning the repository, first create a file named `.env.local` in the root directory and add the following variables:

```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_openai_api_key>
ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=<your_elevenlabs_api_key>
PEXELS_API_KEY=<your_pexels_api_key>
```

Then, run the below command to install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

After, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the web app.
